# h1 - 3 StepIT and Fraud by Elias Alanko

3 Step IT has been giving a very interesting presentation about BEC Fraud and it’s categories:

CEO Fraud 
Invoice Fraud


CEO Fraud 
Personally I have been a victim of the CEO Fraud at my previous company but luckily I have never responded to that email and flagged it to the IT team.
The message I received had a very basic language and very strange email address so it was extremely easy to catch the fraud.

Invoice Fraud
Invoice Fraud is something I have never faced myself but since this is interconnected with my work I would like to discuss more about effective measures of how to prevent it and what the internal protocols that companies normally execute in the long run.


What is Invoice Fraud?
Your supplier notifies that the bank account has changed and the payments should be performed to the different bank accounts.

When doing a new vendor onboarding, the responsible team obtains vendor bank details and a letter from the vendor bank confirming that the bank account belongs to the vendor.

All the information gots recorded and saved in the ERP system.

All further payments will be performed to the bank account mentioned in ERP.

Even if we face an event described by Elias in the presentation where there is an ask in the email text to transfer the money to another account, one of the validation points will always be the bank account mentioned in the invoice PDF. 
We had a huge problem when the bank of silicone valley (SVB) collapsed in March 2023 and vendors started reaching out to ask to stop money transfer to their accounts.

If there is request to transfer money to another bank account and there is a corresponding invoice the following procedure will be triggered:

There is a request of a letter from the bank with bank details
Blank bank statement 


Segregation of duties. This is what is commonly used in all the organizations I have been working. This means separation of responsibilities for creating, approving, and paying invoices to prevent a single person from having too much control over the payment process.
Implement a dual-authorization process for large or sensitive payments.

What really interests me is if the so-called E-laskutus or E-Invoicing method that is used in Finland for B2B operations actually contributes towards the decrease of Invoice Fraud. I analyzed the method of functioning and thought about the concept where E-invoicing is implemented on top of segregation of duties and looks like a safe operational environment. 
